# Internal-covox
An internal (bracket-mount) Covox Speech Thing-like card, to connect to an internal parallel header.

The Covox Speech Thing is arguably the simplest piece of sound hardware created for the PC, consisting of little more than a resistor ladder DAC and a rudimentary low-pass filter. Because of its relative rarity and extreme simplicity there are already many clone designs. The fact that the patent for the Speech Thing contains a full schematic no doubt helps as well. These clones range from extremely minimal homebrew designs to some commercial sound cards (most notably Aztech Technologies' first generation Soundblaster Pro clones) integrating the functionality.

So, why a new clone? A defining feature of the Speech Thing, and of all common clones not integrated into a sound card/chip is that they are an external design, interfacing with the parallel port of the PC. This means it can be installed without opening the PC case, and can be used on systems with no internal expansion slots. Great. But it also leads to a messy, vulnerable thing sticking out of the back of the PC. If the PC in question has internal slots and internal parallel headers, it should be possible to design something that can be mounted on an expansion slot plate that can be connected to the parallel header with a flatcable. This design is an attempt to do so.

The design is strongly inspired by Serdaco's CVX4 exernal device (available here: https://www.serdashop.com/CVX4) - which is arguably the best clone you can buy at this time - particularly in the use of 23 identical N resistors instead of 8 2N + 7 N resistors to minimise differences, and a dipswitch to modify filter and volume characteristics. Not having access to the CVX4 schematics (or indeed wanting to blatantly copy it), this design was instead based on Covox' (expired) patent. Also, not having confident skills with or equipment for SMD soldering, it is through-hole only.

An additional reason for this design is that it is my first PCB design. I wanted something simple enough for a beginner but with a real-world application. Please be forgiving of the errors here, I am most interested in critical feedback.
